And he presented, and the staff said, well,
Colonel, that sounds pretty good. I would go along
with it. I wouldn't fight it, because even though I
may not like it, it wasn't my idea. That doesn't
mean that I shouldn't accept it. And I said,
whatever's good for the unit, let's go with it. In
other words, as far as leadership was concerned,
what you feel is one of your assets is flexibility.
Would you say that? I would say that
wholeheartedly. I was flexible in mine. I know I'm
not the smartest man in the world, I know that. And
yet I could, I feel I was astute in gleaming
somebody's ideas and using them. And that helped
me along the way. Yeah, we all need excellent
subordinates. Oh, yeah. If you don't have them,
you can't make them. I don't know, I like these,
even in civilian life, these corporations stuff,
you know. those companies that failed is because
friends were in there and positioned and family
you know and trying to run a corporation didn't
have the great matter to do it let's continue now
with 1964
let's continue with your career in the reserves
what happened after well in 1964 command the
second brigade 90th infantry infantry And did you
get a promotion along with that? I got a promotion
along with that. I was a lieutenant colonel. And
General Travis, Bob Travis of San Antonio, was a
commanding general. And he recommended to 4th
Army at the time that I take over the infantry
brigade in Houston. And there was a lot of
resistance to it. Why? Because I was a lieutenant
colonel. They said they had colonels in the area
who they felt should take over the job. But General
Travis insisted and stuck to his guns. He said,
well, what good did it do Kokonos to do such a
superior job as a battalion commander if I can't
promote him? And so finally they did. remaining
general of the Fifth Army, he said, okay. And so
they put me in that job, and General Travis called
me to Austin, Texas, the headquarters, and pinned
my eagles on me. Oh, yeah, it was a great thrill. It
really was. That was a big step. Almost as big as
from Colonel to General. It really was a big step.
And so I took over the infantry brigade, and I
walked into a harness nest. Tell me about that
brigade. no sense mentioning the former
commander's name. And he was an Aggie. No kidding?
And the place was a mess? Well, the staff was a mess.
He liked certain type of people. And when I walked
in there, I could sense that my executive officer
was just not on the team. And he was, you know, I
could see that he was upset because he didn't get
the command, and he was upset because the old
commander was gone, and I was a new commander
coming in. And I sensed it immediately. What rank
was he? Lieutenant Colonel. And I was Lieutenant
Colonel. So after the second- Was he senior in
time? No, I was senior. And
after the second meeting, I called him in and told
him to find another job. Really? Yes. What did he
say to that? He said, you can't do that to me. I said,
yes, I can. I said, yes, I can. I command this unit,
and I'm the commander, and you go find you another
home somewhere else. No kidding. And don't show up
the next meeting. He said, you can't do that. You
have to go through the Army Reserve Command and
through Army. I said, I'm telling you to find you
another home. You're not fit to be the executive
officer of this regiment or brigade. So... Did he
show up next time? He did not show up. Well, in the
meantime, I called General Travis, told him what I
was doing. General Travis concurred. He says,
you're the brigade commander, and you do what you
want to down there, and I'll support you 100%. How
can you beat that? That's right. It really makes
you feel good when you've got a commander behind
you. And I learned that. And so that's what I did to
my men. And so I pulled a major up, Major Bill
Nieder. He was the adjutant. And I pulled him up. At
meetings, I just looked at staff over and
evaluated them. And I got my feeling. I could feel
who I wanted to be my key staff people. And so I asked
Major Nieder. I called him in. I says, Major
Nieder, you're my executive officer, and I'm
going to promote you lieutenant colonel. He says,
over all these other people? I says, Major Nieder.
I said, you're going to be my exec officer. You want
the job? Yes, sir. OK. Well, Bill and I became very
dear friends. And he did a tremendous job for me.
I got some criticism from the former commander for
me selecting Nader. When I got that, I knew I'd
selected the right man. I see. And so anyway, we
worked together. We revamped the staff. So that
was the first major problem. That was my first
major problem. And the unit, the disciplinary,
the discipline wasn't so good. But after several
meetings where they perked up, men knew I meant
business. It was strictly business. And I began to
visit the staff members to see just, you know, what
was going on and everything. In fact, one of the
staff members was a county judge down in Near Eagle
Lake. I think he's a federal judge now. Really?
Yeah. And I had a, one of my battalion commanders
was an internal revenue man. Shawrock, Jim
Shawrock. And let me say something else. You know
him. He's at A&M, Jim Bradley. I've heard of him.
You heard him. He's in the economic development,
Dr. Bradley. Jim Bradley was a lieutenant
colonel. and Brian he had a battalion down there
this infantry battalion and he was my senior and
when he wasn't selected oh he was the acting
brigade regiment brigade commander until I got
selected and the minute I got selected Jim came and
I knew Jim and he knew me from training and
everything from school came to me and he says,
Colonel Coconose, and we knew each other by first
name, Jim or Mike, you know, he didn't call me Mike,
he says, Colonel Coconose, he says, you're my
commanding officer and whatever you want me to do,
I'm willing to do it. And he says, you want me to step
aside and let somebody else take this battalion,
I'd be glad to do it. He says, whatever you want to
do, it's up to you. And I looked at him, and I says,
Jim, I want you to be the battalion commander. And
he shook my hand. We shook hands, and it was the
greatest friendship I can enjoy, and I still enjoy
it today with Jim Bradley. That's great. It really
is. Because he was senior, and he was expected to be
named the commander, and he wasn't. Because he'd
been in that regiment. Sounds like a big man,
though. Big man, really. And he's pretty
powerful. prominent there. He's not in the
teaching anymore. He's in the development of
economic development. And he goes to all the
chamber of commerce and helps them in their
city-wide. He's been to Beaumont and helped them
in their economic development. But Jim was very
gracious. And so
I kept him on. And then I had an armored battalion.
tank commander named Leo Connor in Midland,
Texas. And he was a problem. And I finally had to ask
him to resign. Now did you ask him to resign from the
reserves or did you just tell him to resign from
your staff? I had to handle him differently. But in
general, did you have these people just resign
from your staff and like you said go find some other
position in the reserves someplace or did you have
to try to get them out of the service? Well, I had to
treat this exec officer like this because he was I
had to hit him quick and get him out. He had other
problems that I didn't want to linger. I didn't
want him to linger. But I went to see Colonel
Connor, and he had given General Travis problems,
the division commander. So I had to handle him a
little different. And I went to him and said, now,
Leo, you have to just, we just have to get another
commander down here. You flunked the IG for
several, couple of times, and inspections are
bad, and you're treating the division staff like
dirt. I said, we can't have that. So he said, Mike,
you're right. I'll do it. And so we. He was. So he
retired from the service? Well, no, he went to
another unit. And everything began to straighten
out down there. I'd fly to Midland and see him and
visit with him until we got this thing all
straightened out. And I want to ask you a question
about General Travis. With all of these people who
could have taken over, why do you think he picked
you?
Why do you have so much confidence in you? Of
course, General Kidwell, who was my Daivari
commander, who I worked for, went to bat for him,
would tell him, says, Colonel Coker knows who's
getting all these superiors on the, on the firing
range and who's getting these superiors on
maneuvers, RSOP, constant selection occupation
position. He's getting our superiors. He's the
one that's really doing a great job for division
artillery and deserves a promotion. And Travis
began to watch me. I knew that. I knew he'd come to
the field. And I knew he was evaluating me. But it
didn't make any difference. I never put on a show
for anybody. I always had a show going, don't get me
wrong. Right, it was your own. Yeah, it was my own,
that's right. That's somebody else's. We were
spitting polish in the field. I met them all shave
every day, bathe every day. We'd go out to the field
for four or five days at a time. I met them all, put on
new tees every day. And I would see that they were
laundered and back so they could change. And hot
meals in the field. possible. Oh yeah. So in other
words you tried to treat your men as well as
possible. Oh, listen, I always did. Your idea was
they'll treat you the same way. So General Kidwell
really led the fight with Travis to get me to take
over that. General Travis, you know, he felt
strongly about it that he Stood his ground. Yeah,
you're right. I guess you're right. Terry felt I
could get the job done. Because the track record
was good. OK, now let's go to the next. After the
command of that brigade, then what? What was the
next move? Go. That was tragic. McNamara became
Secretary of Defense, and he eliminated the
combat arms and the reserve program. Oh, really?
Oh, yeah. All the divisions, all the United
States. That was tragic. So what happened to you?
Well, now let me tell you. So this is 1966 then?
Right. General is probably going to the 75th
Maneuver Area Command. Yeah, I know this, but I
don't understand what that means. Okay.
The order came out. that the original order came
out that the National Guard would be dissolved and
put into their army reserve. It would be one army
reserve.
And politics took over real strong. The governors
really got hot. Because the National Guard are
governor troops. And they're not federal troops
like the reserve. Even in the armor drilling,
they're state troopers until they're called up by
the Secretary of Defense or Secretary of the Army.
Then they're federal troops. Even in summer
training, they're not federal troops. They're
still guards, state guards. But anyway,
the guard fought it, fought it, fought it, and
McNamara reversed himself completely. He says,
okay, we'll put these. Army Reserve combat arms,
infantry, artillery, armored, and combat
engineers into the Guard.
So we fought it too. But we were under the command of
the Secretary of Defense. So we couldn't do any
political action at all, you know. He was our
commander, actually, Secretary of Defense under
the President. And President Johnson was was the
president then, Lyndon Johnson. And he went along
with McNamara. It was a big mistake. Really, it was
a trap. Because the quality of personnel in the
Army Reserve was head and shoulder above anything
in the National Guard, especially the combat
arms. And here we had eight divisions in the United
States, highly trained. In the 9th Division,
Texas, we had close to 9,000 people, which was
almost 100% strength for a division. Highly
trained. Combat veterans, either the World War II
or Korea, and here he is dissolving them, getting
rid of them. Well, we got the order, no more 9th
Division. And so then General Travis called a
division commander's meeting and bring your
staff, so we brought our staffs to Austin. And he
said that he was going to continue the 9th Division
on a non-pay status. What does that mean? Means we
would continue to drill at the Armory under our old
unit designation, like the 2nd Brigade of the
90th, and that we would not get paid We didn't know
if we could go to summer training camp or not. What
they call a non-pay status unit. And so he wanted to
know how many of us would go along with him.
Figuring that if we did that, then maybe McNamara
would see our desire and our dedication to the Army
Reserve and that he would change his mind. And he
didn't continue if he didn't. So we, 100%. Really?
100%. We all said, yes, we'd stay with you. Well,
after a month or so, Travis, General Travis found
out it was fruitless to, useless to even continue
that way because we weren't getting the support of
the Department of the Army. McNamara wasn't going
to change his mind. And the Department of the Army
was going to pull in our flags and guide-ons and
take away our equipment. And it would just be a
little stag meeting. And so... Travis says, okay.
He calls us back in again. He says, where are they
going to assign you to the National Guard units? So
if you don't like your assignment and you want to
continue, well, come back to Austin and we'll
organize our own non-unit headquarters. Well, my
brigade people in Houston got assigned to the 75th
Maneuver Area Command. 75th Maneuver Area
Command. Which is part of the National Guard. No,
no. Okay, let me explain that to you. We had a
choice. We had a choice to go to the Guard, 36th
Division, or to any reserve unit that we could find
a home. Oh, I see. See? So we had to seek our own home
if we didn't want to go to the Guard. So you found the
75th Maneuver Area Command. command, and this is
what took you out of the artillery, basically, and
then you're in this petroleum intersection,
which I have no idea what that is, which seems quite
different from anything you've done, and I could
not figure that out when I was reading through
this. We'll take that step by step. We got
assigned, we asked to be assigned, my brigade
people, we had to take inventory or counter. How
many wanted to go to the guard? Nobody. None of my
officers. Nobody. Nobody wanted to go to the
guard. How many officers were there in general,
approximately? Thirty-some-odd officers on my
staff. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Not a single one of them
wanted to go to the guard. Because you considered
it that inferior. That's right. Now, a couple of
the enlisted men went to the guard because they got
promoted. They told the enlisted men, If he was a
buck sergeant, they'd promote him to a
four-striper or a five-striper. So several of the
enlisted men, which was fine. They went to the
Guard. But not a single man went to the National
Guard. And so I said, okay, we'll all go. I'll go see
General Davis. He was the commander of the 75th New
Area Command. Felix Davis. He was the commander.
And where was the 75th? In the armory at the Old
Spaniards Trail in Houston. Okay, that was
headquarters. Headquarters. The 75th Maneuver
Every Command is a command post type exercise
headquarters. They put on exercises, map
maneuvers, command post exercise, and field
exercises. And they go out and umpire. Oh, so
they're sort of umpires. They're umpires.
Exactly. They're umpires. And so we went to that
unit. Now, how did you get in? Weren't they filled?
They were filled. But Department of the Army said
they could take us all in as excess. In other words,
the Department of the Army sort of got around
McNamara. They sure did. And said you can go to the
75th as excess office for one year. And after that
one year, you had to find your slot to get into. a
position. So we all went over there and General
Davis, shall I mention names? Okay, General Davis
assigned everybody a slot except Colonel Nieder
and I. In the meantime, Major Nieder became a
colonel and we became dear friends. But prior to
assignment, he called me in And he says, now, you
know these people, where should they be assigned?
And I did. I went down the staff roster, and I said,
put Robinson in the aviation, put in the training
area. And he said, well, don't worry about . And
then we went on down the line. And so when we got
through, he said, well, Colonel ,, I don't know
where we're going to assign you. We don't have a
spot for you. I said, all right, how about Colonel
Eater? Well, we don't have a spot for him either. So
I said, okay, that's fine. You said, would you like
to stay in the unit? I said, sure, we'll stay as
excess. It wasn't a friendly meeting. No, it
doesn't sound like friendly. No. It sounded like
he was very jealous, isn't it? Very jealous. He was
jealous of the 9th Division. And we had a run-in.
Because you did such a good job before? Well, my
reputation did perceive me But we sat on the armory
council together. And General Davis was chairman
of the armory council. And the army council
composed of the commanders in the building. He
commanded one unit. I commanded the brigade
headquarters. And also there was an infantry
battalion in there. And then there was a medical
commander. And then there was a transportation
commander. And there was one of those five
commanders. sent on the council. And they ran the
armory. They allocated the spaces. And they
determined which offices would be open. He wanted
all his offices closed that his people trained in,
and nobody could use them. Well, if we did that, we
wouldn't have an armory to train in, see? And we
tried to tell him that. He says, you've got to leave
your office open. You can't do it. He says, I won't
do it. See, like these offices here. Well, a
commander, we said we'd have a common office for a
commander.
And since you're a general officer, we will give
you a desk. You lock your desk, put all your papers
in, and we won't touch it. We'll bring our files in.
He didn't want that. He wanted his own general
office. And I can understand. But he wanted to give
all his key staff people offices. and locked the
door. Well, we just didn't have that kind of room.
If you could see the building, Terry. Oh, no, we
didn't have it. It was an old, antiquated building
built back in 1930 or something. And he didn't want
to share it. He didn't want to share it. He was very
selfish. So we resisted it, and I voted him. And we
sent it to the Army commander in the Fifth or Fourth
Army. What do you mean you voted him? We had a vote.
What we would do with the offices. Because he voted
to close the office, and we all, four to one, voted
to open them. And he didn't accept that majority.
And he came to me after the meeting, and he says, you
led this revolt against me, and I'm going to hold it
against you. I said, General Davis, sir, no, sir.
I'm not revolting against you. I just don't think
it's fair. Well, I'm pointing this finger at you.
And he used some profanity, and I maintained my
composure, and I said, no, sir. I said, we just feel
like it's fair that we leave the office open. So by
the time then that you went down to the 75th
maneuver, the stage was already set, so to speak.
Set, right. And I said, this happened about a year
and a half, two years before I got there. So when I
got there, he didn't have a spot for me. And I said,
that's fine. What you probably knew was. Well,
that he was upset with me. So I said, that's all
right. And so what did you do for the next year then?
So I trained with him. I stayed with him. I said,
well, now, can I train with you? Sure. He says, I'm
going to assign you to the S3 section. Colonel
Hayden, full colonel. But then he said he didn't
have a... Well, he didn't have a... I was over. I was
at surplus. See, remember, for a year, we could
stay one year at surplus. Okay. At surplus. Well,
we start meeting... That's when they started
weekend trainings then. We used to meet once a week
until they would start weekend training. So the
first meeting I went in, Carlos Hayden was my, he
was the operation officer, and he was a full
colonel, I was a full colonel. And he operated me
maybe a couple of years. But it didn't really mean
much. I mean, you could be full colonels, but
really rank doesn't mean that much. But I'll tell
you, Terry, great. My combat record, no one could
question it. And that just stood before him all the
time. The Silver Star, the Purple Heart, the three
combat stars, the European, and that in the group,
it was a great plus for me. Yeah. And then,
this unit was kind of a sloppy unit. The dress
wasn't so good, and some come unshaved, wasn't
shaved. I come in, I was sparkle, what am I telling
you? And I purposely made it that way, that I would
shine my boots longer and louder and shinier so
they would look better, and my fatigues were
heavily starched. You could sit them in the
corner, they were so starched. Oh, yeah. And my
weight was down, and I was trim. And I just kept my
military bearing, and I knew I had to. This is one
time, early in the conversation, I mentioned
that, you know, there were some prejudices.
After the second or third meeting, Carlos Hayden
was turning to me to tell him what to do. Really?
Right. How to run an Infra Brigade field exercise.
The National Guard had asked us to put on a field
exercise for the 36th Division at Fort Hood for the
summer. And they wanted a retrograde movement and
also a river crossing. And he asked me to set the
plan up. And I did. I got Major Eater. He just wasn't
capable of doing it. Well, he just... He knew you
could do a better job. Yes, so I went and got Colonel
Eater. He said, get you three or four officers and
work this plan. I got Colonel Eater and I got
Edwards, my other officer, and we sat down and we
worked the plan out. He took it in the colonel to
General Davis. And I have to admit, General Davis
called me in and he congratulated me. He says, I got
a job for you now. I'm going to make you the plans
officer. This was after about the... So your year
wasn't up yet? No, this was about my second or third
month. So it was a stormy beginning, but then they
could see your usefulness. That's right. I could
be used. And so he made me the plan officer. Oh,
good. So I made all the plans for the 75th Maneuver
Air Commandment. And it's like Operation
Officer, but I was under the Operation Officer,
but I was his planner. And so from that day on,
General Davis... asked me to do the briefings at
Army headquarters. I would go to the Army
commander and had to present them the plans of what
we were going to do for 36th Division or the 49th
Armored Division. And General Davis asked me to
present the plan operation of the whole thing, and
I would be the briefing officer at the Army. You did
have a lot of responsibility there. Oh, gosh. In
fact, we He would take the whole staff with him,
about 15, 20 officers, and there were colonels and
lieutenant colonels, and there were three
generals, General Davis, General Frazier, and
General, oh, I forgot his name. Anyway, they would
all go to the briefing, and we'd go to Fort Sam
Houston, say a Thursday night, and we'd brief
Friday morning, and they liked to party. And I
wouldn't party. I mean, I'd be in a party, but I'd
drink water, because I didn't want to. I knew what I
had to do the next morning, and General Davis said,
what's the matter, you don't drink? I said, yes
sir, I drink. I drink just as much as you or anybody
else, but I got a job to do in the morning, I want to be
clear. Well, it partied all night long at the VIP
headquarters, I mean, B.O.Q. Hell, next morning I
was up bright and early, got all my damn slides
ready, and I got my briefing notes, and And hell,
I'd run a mile or two before everybody else that got
up. And so at the briefing, man, hell, I hit the Army
commander three-star general right in the eye
with our briefing. Anyway,
I did him a good job. And he liked it. Made him look
good. Made him look damn good. I wrote some
operations in China. wrote a plan of a field
exercise in Cambodia before the Vietnam War. It's
still in their files. How to maneuver tanks in
Cambodia. And I was briefing the army commander on
this Cambodia exercise, and I threw in two armored
divisions, and his operation, Colonel Abush, was
the regular army operation officer. He jumped
straight up in there and says, you can't use tanks
in Cambodia. And I says, well, Colonel Abish, we
certainly can't. Never. No one has ever put tanks
in Cambodia. Why aren't you realistic about this?
Don't be hypothetical in saying you can. In front
of the commander, in front of the guard, General
Bishop was there, the action general. And so I
said, well, Colonel Abish, I'll tell you what we
did. We went to Fort Knox, Kentucky, and we
presented this plan, before we presented it to you
here today, and presented it to the armored people
and see if they could put armor to camera, and they
said they could do it 100%. Now, if the armored
people say they can do it, how come you say they
can't? You didn't have much to say there. No, he
did. He sat down. He sat down. He says, well, and
then later he come along and said, Mike, you really
got me, didn't you? I said, well, I didn't mean to.
You know, you jumped straight up in the air, and you
were about to jump down my throat. But anyway,
General Davis was delighted and pleased, and when
I left the 75th Maneuver Area Command to take over a
group, the 173rd Combat Support Group. And what
year was that? 1969.
And organized in Beaumont. This group... What did
you do there? I was still a full colonel. Did Davis
get this job for you? No, oh no. He didn't want me to
leave then. You were too valuable then. He really
didn't want me to leave. He was very nice.
You were ready for your own command. I really was
and I always liked the command. I was staff then,
and so the general out
of New Orleans, Louisiana, my dad, he asked me to
take over this group. It was a new group. Never had
been in existence before, and it was being
organized in Beaumont. He wondered if I'd take it.
I said, sure. So I took this group. And got the same
people that was in the artillery battalion. In the
meantime, the artillery battalion had become a
service supply battalion. So I took those people
and we were reorganizing into a direct support
group. So you got your old subordinates.
Subordinates, right. They're really good ones,
John. Right. Got them all back. Those of them who
were still left there. Some of them quit because
they didn't want to be in a supply unit, the
artillery people. And I was I commanded that group
for two years as full colonel. And what were your
jobs? What was your function and duty there? Why
did you have this? Why did they set this up, the
173rd to begin with? Why did we need it? It was a
service supply unit type thing. We had laundry
units, we had shower bath units, graze
registration, these services that support
logistically. We had logistics.
A new command for me, but I felt I could handle it
without any problem, because the experience I had
in the brigade and the experience I had in the 75th
Maneuver Air Command, I didn't feel the supply
service
type organization would give me any trouble at
all, which they did. And then I had
one incident. I had a unit in Bogalusa, Louisiana.
It was a shower unit. And the captain of that unit
was Captain Beauregard, like Beauregard Parish.
And in fact, he's related to them. OK, he had some
blacks in his unit. And he also had some Ku Klux
Klansmen in his units. And so I didn't know all of
this. We were at Fort Polk, Louisiana. So I invited
the general, uh, commanding general of Fort Polk
to come down and see the first, to witness the
opening of our shower unit. Now this Captain
Beauregard set up the shower unit. And so, uh, and I
suggested to him that he formed the company out
there and have them all take showers. while the
commanding officer, commanding general, would
watch it and whatever his staff. So Beauregard
thought it was a great idea. So sure enough, here
comes all the dignitaries. And I noticed that
there was some flurry of activity on my staff. They
were talking. So I called Colonel Bell over. I
said, Colonel Bell, what's the problem? He says,
well, We're about to have a revolt in Beauregard's
company because the
white boys don't want to take a shower with the
black boys. I said, oh. What are they going to do?
They said, well, they're going to walk away. I
said, oh, god, that's not good, is it? No. I said,
OK, line them up. So they lined them all up. And the
water's ready to pour, and the shower's off. So
Captain Beauregard saw me coming. with the staff,
the VIPs, and we got up there and we saluted. I said,
Captain Beauregard, I want you, me, I said, I want
you and me, and I want this man, this man, this man,
this man. I picked out three whites and three
blacks to take showers with me, and I started
taking off my clothes.
And when the white boys saw me taking off my
clothes, they all started taking off their
clothes. And so the black boys, they just went
ahead and took the clothes. So we all took showers
together. From then on, we had no more problems.
That's a really intelligent way to resolve that. I
thought that. I thought so. Did you think of that
when you were walking out there? Well, after
Captain Bell told me this, I began to think. And I
said, you've got to do something. And I said, hell,
I'll just take the bulls by the horn. Really? And
I'll just take my clothes off and take a shower with
them. And so we took a shower together, and after
that, we had no more problems. Captain Beauregard
came to me later, and he says, how did you know about
what was going on? I said, well, I heard. And he
said, well, I've been having a lot of trouble ever
since I've been in camp. I said, well, why don't you
tell me about this thing? He said, I don't think
you'll have any more trouble. He said, I don't
think I will either, because the guys that I picked
were Klansmen. And they weren't going to tell on
each other. See, what they were afraid of, they'd
go back home to Boogaloosa, Louisiana, and they
would say, hey, you took a bath with a black guy. And
since I stepped in there and said, you come with me
and take a shower, well, that made it OK, because
they would use me as an excuse. So that kind of
prevented a little racial incident there. Well,
during this whole time, did you have any problems
with the racial incidents? Not really. No
problem. Because the South was really going under
a transition. Yeah. from the 50s to the 60s and into
the 70s, and at the same time you were commanding
units. When did your units start taking blacks?
Gee, I can't remember the date we started taking
blacks. Did you back in? Actually, we were taking
blacks all the time. Few, not many. And they were
key, and they were good, and uh, they were just a
few. And uh, uh, But I never had any trouble with
blacks. I never had trouble with any of them,
really, to tell you the truth. Did any of the units
have trouble besides this one? Not that I can
remember. None of my units ever had any trouble.
Even when we went to Fort Chaffee, we never had any
trouble. Why do you think you didn't have trouble?
Because the rest of the society seemed to be having
trouble at that time, in the mid-1960s. Well,
because I guess I'm related to them. You know, I'd
go to the black, and I'd shake his hand, put my arm
around his shoulder, doing a good job, keep it up,
you know. And the white soldier would see me and
say, hell, the commander's doing it, what can I do?
You know, be friendly with him. And so, and I looked
after him. I made sure everybody was fed and good
and had good barracks. It took me to Fort Hood one
day and I had a, My unit, this direct support unit,
sent me to Fort Hood for training. And they put us in
tents on South Fort Hood next to some beautiful
army barracks that were empty. And so the
advance party went there. And so when I got there,
Colonel Bell says, Colonel, we're going to sleep
in tents. I said, what's that over there? He says,
those are army barracks. Let's go look at them.
Well, where are they? Hell, they were good army
barracks. Clean, nice. I said, why can't we live in
here? He says, we can't do it. I said, where the hell
we came? So I went to the corps commander,
three-star general named General Powell, Bev
Powell, regular army corps commander. I said,
General Powell, I says, you've got some regular
army barracks out there. They're not being used.
active army barracks, and yet you put us in tents,
sleeping on the dirt floor.
I said, well, come on, I'll show you. We took a ride.
He cussed. No, hell no. Next thing I knew, we were in
those barracks. And so he called me in, and we
became very good friends throughout the years.
And he thanked me. You see, this is part of this. Why
was this? Because you were a reservist?
Reservist. This is part of what we were talking
about. Part about the active establishment
resenting the reservists coming in there. What we
could do in two weeks, they couldn't do in six
months, and we'd do a good job. Of course, we had
quality people, just like that architect and that
engineer and controller I was telling you about.
We had tremendous people, and they could do it. So
after that, when we went back the next year, they
didn't have any spaces on post, so they put us in
motels. No kidding? Oh, yeah. They didn't put you
in tents? They put you in a motel? Holiday Inn. They
didn't want to go through. They didn't want to have
General Powell come. That's a royal treatment.
That's right. They didn't want General Powell
coming down and blowing down their neck anymore. I
think he got rid of a couple of people, really. He
told me he wanted to. And he was good to me. He had
visitors from Washington, Pentagon come visit
him at home. He invited me over for dinner a couple
of times to eat with us. It was nice. I got along good
with him. And I would tell him about the Reserves.
And I didn't mention any words. Down in the field,
the active Army people don't help us. I don't know.
Maybe I helped, maybe I didn't. I don't know. Word
got back to Pentagon. Because these were three and
four star generals. Sure. And here I was just a
colonel. And I always maintained my position with
them. I never got smart aleck with them at all. And,
you know, they found out I played basketball at
A&M. Then they found out I was a handball champion.
In fact, General Powell lined up handball game
with me. Oh, really? Oh, sure. He wanted me to beat
some people on the post. He did, yeah. And I did. Oh,
yeah. Chaplain. He was a colonel chaplain. And the
other guy was a... Brigadier General, and he said,
I want you to beat on him. They think they're smart.
So I did. I played handball. I just beat him. He
liked that. Anyway. What about your last
assignment then? That's about it. You're talking
about the Quartermaster Patrol? We've got to go
there now. Yeah, that's what I'm talking about.
That's your last assignment. I was the commander
of this direct support group in Beaumont. I'm
sitting in my office.
I went to the Army one morning, about 10.30, and the
phone rings. And it's the Army commander, the
Deputy Army commander, General Franklin.
Colonel Koganos? Yes, sir. It's General
Franklin. Yes, sir. You've been selected to take
the Brigadier General slot in Albuquerque, New
Mexico. I said, well, what is this? He says,
there's a Brigadier General slot opening, the
commander is retired, and you have been selected
to assume that position. Would you like to have it?
That means going from Beaumont, Texas to
Albuquerque, New Mexico. I said, yes, sir. I'd be
glad to have it. He said, OK. And you never thought
about this before? You never had any word or any
hint or anything? I knew the job was open in Mexico,
but it didn't Excite me to try to see what it was all
about. And so I went to General Frank and said, you
better come see me. We're at your convenience. So I
said, well, it'd be several days. Of course, I was
tied up in my business. He said, well, come on up
here. And then we set a date up. I remember it was
Tuesday morning, about 10 o'clock. So I took off
for San Antonio. And he told me, he said, now, it's a
very dear General Slott. You're a Texan. You're
going to New Mexico. He says, I asked him the same
thing, Terry. I said, why did you select me, Joe
Franklin? He says, because you had the best
record. And you've come highly recommended to us
from other sources that we sought
recommendation. Your name popped up because of
your record. And once it popped up, we began to look
into it. And we checked your background and
everything. You were the man for the job. So I went
on up there. I flew up there on the weekend and took
over command. Next thing I knew, I was being
investigated by Senator Montoya. No kidding? Oh,
yeah. You remember this Montoya on Watergate? He
was his ranking senior in New Mexico. He wanted to
know why a Texan would take over a New Mexico unit.
That's what his reason was. Why was a Texan? In
other words, he wanted somebody from New Mexico to
take it over. Oh, sure. Take it over. and
Department of the Army, and Franklin had
forewarned me that they'd probably get some
static. Now, I didn't get involved with Senator
Montoya myself, because he dealt with the Army.
The Army says, don't worry about it. It says, we've
got your record.